feat(curriculum): create css-positioning quiz (#56622)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/quiz-css-positioning/66ed8ffcf45ce3ece4053eb5.md

#### --text--

The main purpose of the float property in CSS is:

#### --distractors--

To create rounded corners

---

To control opacity

---

To center vertically

#### --answer--

To align elements to either the left or the right of their container 

### --question--

#### --text--

Which CSS property is used to set the stack order of an element?

#### --distractors--

`position`

---

`bg-green`

---

`float`

#### --answer--

`z-index`

### --question--

#### --text--

> What happens when you apply `position: relative` to an element in CSS ?  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What happens when you apply `position: relative` to an element in CSS?
```

#### --distractors--

> It removes the element from document flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It removes the element from the document flow.
```

---

> It only moves the element relative to the viewport

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It positions the element relative to the viewport.
```

---

> This will keep the element in a fixed position relative to the viewport.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It positions the element in a fixed position relative to the viewport.
```

#### --answer--

> It moves an element relative based on its normal position

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It moves an element relative to on its default position in the document.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It moves an element relative to its normal position
```

> It moves an element relative to on its default position in the document.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It moves an element relative to its default position in the document.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which CSS property would you use to fix an element at a certain position on the page so that it does not move when scrolling occurs?

#### --distractors--

`position: absolute`

---

`position: relative`

---

`display: block`

#### --answer--

`position: fixed`

### --question--

#### --text--

> If an element has `position: absolute`, to what is it positioned by default ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an element has `position: absolute`, what element is it positioned relatively to?
```

#### --distractors--

The closest ancestor with `position: fixed`

---

The closest ancestor with `position: absolute`

---

The `<body>` element

#### --answer--

The closest ancestor with `position: relative`

### --question--

#### --text--

Which positioning method allows an element to stick to a defined position only when you scroll past a certain point?

#### --distractors--

`position: float`

---

`position: fixed`

---

`position: absolute`

#### --answer--

`position: sticky`

### --question--

#### --text--

What would happen if an element had `z-index: -1`?

#### --distractors--

> It will be on top of all the other elements on the page

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will be on top of all the other elements on the page.
```

---

It will disappear from view.

---

It will stack on top of all other elements

#### --answer--

It will always be in the back of all the other elements on the page

### --question--

#### --text--

How does a floated element affect the layout of surrounding elements?

#### --distractors--

> Other elements are placed in relation to the floated element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other elements are placed in relation to the floated element.
```

---

The surrounding elements ignore the floated element and overlap it.

---

> It will shift surrounding elements behind the floated element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will shift surrounding elements behind the floated element.
```

#### --answer--

> Block elements surrounding it flow around the floated element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Block elements surrounding it flow around the floated element.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What does an element with `position: sticky` require for it to work?

#### --distractors--

> A `position: relative` parent element 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `position: relative` parent element.
```

---

> A `z-index` value greater than 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `z-index` value greater than 1.
```

---

> A `z-index` of 0 or greater

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `z-index` of 0 or greater.
```

#### --answer--

> A declared `top`, `left`, `right`, or `bottom` property 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A declared `top`, `left`, `right`, or `bottom` property.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What happens when setting the `overflow` property of a parent to `auto` if one of its children has the property `position: sticky`?

#### --distractors--

The child element's sticky behaviour is not affected by the overflow property of the parent.

---

The sticky element will maintain its behavior regardless of scrolling.

---

The sticky element will act as if it had position: fixed within the parent.

#### --answer--

The child will lose its sticky behaviour when the parent scrolls.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following are true about `position: relative` and how it affects the child elements?

#### --distractors--

Child elements with `position: absolute` will be positioned relative to the nearest positioned ancestor, whether that is relative or absolute.

---

> A `position: relative` element moved does not occupy any space within the document flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `position: relative` element moved does not occupy any space within the document flow.

```

Reviewer 3: you still need to address this @Muhammad-Rebaal

---

Relative positioning allows an element to overlap sibling elements without affecting their layout.

#### --answer--

> The `position: relative` element keeps its space in document flow, but the children absolutely positioned should be positioned concerning the `position: relative` parent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `position: relative` element keeps its space in document flow, but the children absolutely positioned are positioned relative to the `position: relative` parent.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

How does a floated element impact the height of its containing block when the containing block does not have an explicit height defined?

#### --distractors--

The height of the containing block is automatically expanded to fit the floated element.

---

Height will automatically adapt to fit all the floated elements.

---

> The containing block will automatically apply `clear: both` to fit the floated element 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The containing block will automatically apply `clear: both` to fit the floated element.
```

#### --answer--

The containing block will collapse, completely ignoring its floated element height.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following CSS techniques is an accepted method for preventing a parent container from shrinking in size when it contains only floated elements?

#### --distractors--

> Set `float: none` to the container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set `float: none` on the container.
```

---

Add `margin: auto` to the parent container.

---

> Use the `position: relative` on the parent container 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `position: relative` on the parent container.
```

#### --answer--

> Adding the property `overflow: auto` or `overflow: hidden` to the parent container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding the property `overflow: auto` or `overflow: hidden` to the parent container.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> When a floating element is followed by non-floating inline elements, how will their layout be affected? 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a floating element is followed by non-floating inline elements, how will their layout be affected?
```

#### --distractors--

The inline elements will be positioned below the floated element. 

---

> Inline elements will always be on top of the floated element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inline elements will always be on top of the floated element.
```

---

> The inline elements will overlap the floated element 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The inline elements will overlap the floated element.
```

#### --answer--

Inline elements will wrap around the floated element if there is enough space.

### --question--

#### --text--

What happens when `clear: both` is applied to an element following two floated elements - one left and one right - in a container?

#### --distractors--

The element will be positioned to the left of the floated elements.

---

> The element will align between the two floated elements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The element will align between the two floated elements.
```

---

> The element will wrap around the floated elements depending on space 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The element will wrap around the floated elements depending on space.
```

#### --answer--

> The element will be underneath both floated elements - the float breaks 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The element will be underneath both floated elements - the float breaks.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

When does an element with `z-index: auto` create a new stacking context?

#### --distractors--

> When Combined with `position: absolute` or `position: relative`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When combined with `position: absolute` or `position: relative`.
```

---

> When its parent element has `z-index: auto` and `position: fixed`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When its parent element has `z-index: auto` and `position: fixed`.
```

---

> When it is combined with `float: left` If two sibling elements are of the same `z-index` and absolutely positioned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When it is combined with `float: left`, if two sibling elements are of the same `z-index` and absolutely positioned.
```

#### --answer--

> In combination with `position: fixed` or `position: sticky`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In combination with `position: fixed` or `position: sticky`.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

If two sibling elements have the same `z-index` and are both positioned absolutely using `position: absolute`, what determins which one is on top?

#### --distractors--

> It rearranges the sibling elements in relation to its new position 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It rearranges the sibling elements in relation to its new position.
```

---

> Adding `z-index: auto` to the parent container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adding `z-index: auto` to the parent container.
```

---

> Using `position: relative` on the parent container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using `position: relative` on the parent container.
```

#### --answer--

> The document source order (HTML position)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The document source order (HTML position).
```

### --question--

#### --text--

In what way will the property `position: relative` exert an effect on sibling elements in regards to document flow?

#### --distractors--

It removes the element from the normal document flow, which affects the positions of siblings.

---

The relative element will move by the parent's top and left properties. 

---

It creates a new stacking context which lifts the element in relation to any siblings.

#### --answer--

It allows the element to shift without affecting the document flow of sibling elements.

### --question--

#### --text--

What happens when a `position: relative` element is nested inside of a `position: absolute` parent, with top and left values set?

#### --distractors--

It moves relative to the parent element's original position.

---

> It moves with respect to the absolute coordinates of the containing parent element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It moves with respect to the absolute coordinates of the containing parent element.
```

---

> It will never create a new stacking context whatever the `z-index` value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will never create a new stacking context whatever the `z-index` value.
```

#### --answer--

> It ignores the positioning of the parent and moves relative to its normal position

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It ignores the positioning of the parent and moves relative to its normal position.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the default of an element with `position: sticky` in terms of stacking context when combined with a `z-index` value?

#### --distractors--

It will create a new stacking context, and on top of any other element whose `z-index` is auto.

---

By default it behaves like `position: absolute` creating a new stacking context.

---

> It ignores stacking contexts completely and will always end behind every element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It ignores stacking contexts completely and will always end behind every element.
```

#### --text--

The main purpose of the float property in CSS is:

#### --distractors--

> (A) To create rounded corners

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create rounded corners
```
Order of the options are randomized on the quiz page. They should not have any ordering indication in the markdown file. This applies to other distractors and answers.

Author: @gikf Ok Thanks ! I'll surely take a look on that and again make a pull request.

Reviewer 3: do not make a new pull request please, update this one

Author: Hi @ilenia-magoni  & @gikf !
I've made the required changes.

---

> opacity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To control opacity
```

---

To center vertically

#### --answer--

> The property is used to align elements to either the left or the right of their container.

Reviewer 3: this is the only choice that is a complete answer, distractors and answer should be written in the same stile

> The property is used to align elements to either the left or the right of their container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To align elements to either the left or the right of their container
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which CSS property is used to set the stack order of an element?

#### --distractors--

> position

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`position`
```

---

`bg-green`

---

`float`

#### --answer--

`z-index`

### --question--

#### --text--

> What happens when you apply the property position: relative to an element in CSS ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What happens when you apply `position: relative` to an element in CSS ?
```

#### --distractors--

It removes the element from document flow.

---

It only moves the element relative to the viewport.

---

It positions the element in a fixed position relative to the viewport.

#### --answer--

> It moves an element relative to its default position in the document.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It moves the element relative to its default position in the document.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which CSS property would you use to fix an element at a certain position on the page so that it does not move when scrolling occurs?

#### --distractors--

> position: absolute

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`position: absolute`
```

backticks are needed when writing code, please add to the other distractors and answers that are missing them

Author: Sure!

---

`position: relative`

---

`display: block`

#### --answer--

`position: fixed`

### --question--

#### --text--

If an element has `position: absolute`, what element is it positioned relatively to?

#### --distractors--

The closest ancestor with `position: fixed`.

---

The closest ancestor with `position: absolute`.

---

The `<body>` element.

#### --answer--

> The closest positioned ancestor with `position: relative`, `absolute` or `fixed`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The closest positioned ancestor with `position` set to `relative`, `absolute`, or `fixed`.
```
Either it should be both property and value for all three, or just the property and the three different values.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which positioning method allows an element to stick to a defined position only when you scroll past a certain point?

#### --distractors--

`position: float`

---

`position: fixed`

---

`position: absolute`

#### --answer--

`position: sticky`

### --question--

#### --text--

> What would happen if an element had z-index: -1?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What would happen if an element had `z-index: -1`?
```

#### --distractors--

It will be on top of all the other elements on the page

---

It will disappear from view.

---

It will stack on top of all other elements

#### --answer--

It will always be in the back of all the other elements on the page

### --question--

#### --text--

How does a floated element affect the layout of surrounding elements?

#### --distractors--

Other elements are placed in relation to the floated element

---

> The floated element is overlapped by surrounding elements that ignore it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The surrounding elements ignore the floated element and overlap it.
```

It is a subtle distinction.

The first "elements that ignore it" implies (to me) an explicit state, and the second "surrounding elements ignore" is an implicit state caused by the floated element.

It is definitely possible for elements to overlap the floated element if they are "ignoring it", e.g. are positioned so they can overlap it.

---

> It will shift surrounding elements behind the floated element

Reviewer 4: Not sure about this one. It is possible for elements to be behind a floated element.

If you look at the first example and remove the `clear: left` you can see the `p` element box is behind the floated elements, but its text still wraps around the floats.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/clear#clear_left

#### --answer--

Block elements surrounding it flow around the floated element

### --question--

#### --text--

What does an element with `position: sticky` require for it to work?

#### --distractors--

A `position: relative` parent element 

---

A `z-index` value greater than 1

---

A `z-index` of 0 or greater

#### --answer--

> A declared top, left, right, or bottom property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A declared `top`, `left`, `right`, or `bottom` property
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> What happens when setting the overflow property of a parent to auto, if one of its children has the property position: sticky?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What happens when setting the `overflow` property of a parent to `auto` if one of its children has the property `position: sticky`?
```

#### --distractors--

The child element's sticky behaviour is not affected by the overflow property of the parent.

---

The sticky element will maintain its behavior regardless of scrolling.

---

The sticky element will act as if it had position: fixed within the parent.

#### --answer--

The child will lose its sticky behaviour when the parent scrolls.

### --question--

#### --text--

> Which of the following must be true if a `position: sticky` element is to work as intended?

Reviewer 4: This is repeating a previous question (question 9 if I counted correctly - Line 196).

#### --distractors--

The height in the parent container must be explicitly set.

---

The sticky element should be inside a container with `position: relative`

---

Any sticky element must declare `float: left` or `float: right` 

#### --answer--

> The sticky element should have one of the top, left, right or bottom value defined.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sticky element should have one of the `top`, `left`, `right` or `bottom` value defined.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

How does a floated element impact the height of its containing block when the containing block does not have an explicit height defined?

#### --distractors--

The height of the containing block is automatically expanded to fit the floated element.

---

Height will automatically adapt to fit all the floated elements.

---

The containing block will automatically apply `clear: both` to fit the floated element 

#### --answer--

The containing block will collapse, completely ignoring its floated element height.

### --question--

#### --text--

> Which of the following CSS techniques is an accepted method for preventing a parent container from schrinking in size when it contains only floated elements?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Which of the following CSS techniques is an accepted method for preventing a parent container from shrinking in size when it contains only floated elements?
```

#### --distractors--

Set `float: none` to the container

---

Add `margin: auto` to the parent container.

---

Use the `position: relative` on the parent container 

#### --answer--

Adding the property `overflow: auto` or `overflow: hidden` to the parent container

### --question--

#### --text--

> When a floating element is followed by non-floating inline elements, it will affect the way in which their layout is performed. 

Reviewer 2: This isn't a question.

> When a floating element is followed by non-floating inline elements, it will affect the way in which their layout is performed. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When a floating element is followed by non-floating inline elements, in which way will it affect how their layout is performed. 
```

Maybe? Not sure.

#### --distractors--

The inline elements will be positioned below the floated element. 

---

Inline elements will always be on top of the floated element

---

The inline elements will overlap the floated element 

#### --answer--

Inline elements will wrap around the floated element if there is enough space.

### --question--

#### --text--

> What happens when clear: both is applied to an element following two floated elements -one left and one right - in a container?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What happens when `clear: both` is applied to an element following two floated elements - one left and one right - in a container?
```

#### --distractors--

The element will be positioned to the left of the floated elements.

---

The element will align between the two floated elements

---

The element will wrap around the floated elements depending on space 

#### --answer--

The element will be underneath both floated elements - the float breaks 

### --question--

#### --text--

> When does an element with z-index: auto create a new stacking context?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When does an element with `z-index: auto` create a new stacking context?
```

#### --distractors--

> Combined with `position: absolute` or `position: relative`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When combined with `position: absolute` or `position: relative`
```

---

When its parent element has `z-index: auto` and `position: fixed`

---

When it is combined with `float: left` If two sibling elements are of the same `z-index` and absolutely positioned

#### --answer--

In combination with `position: fixed` or `position: sticky`

### --question--

#### --text--

> If two sibling elements have the same z-index and are both positioned absolutely using position: absolute, how do you determine which one is on top?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If two sibling elements have the same `z-index` and are both positioned absolutely using `position: absolute`, how do you determine which one is on top?
```

> If two sibling elements have the same z-index and are both positioned absolutely using position: absolute, how do you determine which one is on top?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If two sibling elements have the same `z-index` and are both positioned absolutely using `position: absolute`, what determins which one is on top?
```

But this isn't what the answer is talking about. It talks about _changing_ the source order. So either this need to change to how you control which one is on top or the answer needs to be changed.

#### --distractors--

It rearranges the sibling elements in relation to its new position 

---

Adding `z-index: auto` to the parent container

---

Using `position: relative` on the parent container

#### --answer--

> By changing the document order (HTML position)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The document source order (HTML position)
```

To make it match the question.

### --question--

#### --text--

> In what way will the property position: relative exert an effect on sibling elements in regards to document flow?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In what way will the property `position: relative` exert an effect on sibling elements in regards to document flow?
```

#### --distractors--

It removes the element from the normal document flow, which affects the positions of siblings.

---

The relative element will move by the parent's top and left properties. 

---

It creates a new stacking context which lifts the element in relation to any siblings.

#### --answer--

It allows the element to shift without affecting the document flow of sibling elements.

### --question--

#### --text--

What happens when a `position: relative` element is nested inside of a `position: absolute` parent, with top and left values set?

#### --distractors--

It moves relative to the parent element's original position.

---

It moves with respect to the absolute coordinates of the containing parent element

---

It will never create a new stacking context whatever the `z-index` value

#### --answer--

It ignores the positioning of the parent and moves relative to its normal position

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the default of an element with `position: sticky` in terms of stacking context when combined with a `z-index` value?

#### --distractors--

It will create a new stacking context, and on top of any other element whose `z-index` is auto.

---

> By default it behaves like position: absolute creating a new stacking context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default it behaves like `position: absolute` creating a new stacking context.
```

> It will create a new stacking context, and on top of any other element whose `z-index` is auto.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It will create a new stacking context, and be on top of any other element whose `z-index` is auto.
```

---

It ignores stacking contexts completely and will always end behind every element.

#### --answer--

> It stays within the stacking context in which it is if `z-index` is not explicitly defined.

Reviewer 4: > if `z-index` is not explicitly defined.

Doesn't this contradict the question?

> when combined with a `z-index` value?

Reviewer 4: Again, this is the question:

> What is the default of an element with `position: sticky` in terms of stacking context **when combined with a `z-index` value?**

And this is the answer:

> It stays within the stacking context in which it is **if `z-index` is not explicitly defined.**

How can it be both "when combined with a `z-index` value?" and "`z-index` is not explicitly defined."
